Update ZHA documentation with tips on improving Zigbee network range (#18864)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/zha.markdown

Following all these optimization tips below should significantly improve the reception of your Zigbee radio adapter. The below insights describe working around the well-known limitations of low-power/low-bandwidth 2.4 GHz digital radios. It can that way resolve or avoid many known issues caused by interference or poor placement of your Zigbee radio adapter or devices.

All electric devices/appliances, especially computers and computer peripherals, generate [electromagnetic interference (also known as EMI/EMI/RMI, or signal noise in layman's terms)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electromagnetic_interference), which can jam or interfere with signals transmissions on the 2.4 GHz radio band frequency, and degrade the wireless communication with your Zigbee adapter/devices.

For example, interference from USB 3.0 ports and unshielded USB peripheral cables are especially infamously known to affect 2.4 GHz radio reception for low-power/low-bandwidth devices. Therefore you should always place your Zigbee adapter far away as possible from any potential sources of EMI/EMI/RMI, preferably by using an adequately long shielded USB extension cable connected to a USB 2.0 port.

> Zigbee also uses [mesh networking topology](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mesh_networking), which means that most mains-powered devices are a "Zigbee Router" that can act as a signal repeater and range extended by transmitting data over long distances by passing data messages through the Zigbee network mesh of intermediate devices to reach more distant Zigbee devices. Thus to have a healthy Zigbee network you need many Zigbee Router devices relatively close to each other in order to achieve good coverage and range.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Zigbee also uses [mesh networking topology](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mesh_networking), which means that most mains-powered devices are a "Zigbee Router" that can act as a signal repeater and range extended by transmitting data over long distances by passing data messages through the Zigbee network mesh of intermediate devices to reach more distant Zigbee devices. Thus to have a healthy Zigbee network, you need many Zigbee Router devices relatively close to each other in order to achieve good coverage and range.
```

> #### Simple actions that should improve most Zigbee setups and common root causes of interference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Actions that can improve most Zigbee setups and common root causes of interference
```

  - Add more and decrease the distance between Zigbee devices in Zigbee network mesh to get better range and coverage:
    - Zigbee uses [mesh networking](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mesh_networking) and depends on having many "Zigbee Router" devices to extend range and coverage:
      - Recommendation is to add additional mains-powered Zigbee devices known to be good Zigbee Router devices.
        - Add more Zigbee Router devices and reduce their distances to extend network mesh coverage and range.
          - Note that not all mains-powered devices have firmware that makes them act as a Zigbee Router device.
          - Some brands/models of Zigbee Router devices are known to only work well with the same brand of devices.
      - Buy a few known good dedicated Zigbee Router products (for example the “[IKEA Tradfri Signal Repeater](https://www.google.com/search?q=IKEA+Tradfri+Signal+Repeater)”).
        - Search community forums for more "Zigbee signal repeater" or "Zigbee range extender" Zigbee Router tips.
      - Buy a few additional new Zigbee USB adapters to use after re-flashing them with Zigbee Router firmware.

>         - Reflash/reuse modern Zigbee USB adapters to act as Zigbee Router devices by changing Zigbee firmware.

Reviewer: This really doesn't work as a big list. For example:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/195327/212767828-6e87ff4d-f517-400c-8b4f-fc89db894f86.png)

Not even to start reading this one mobile 🙈  This needs to be structured differently.

Author: Got any specific suggestions on how to make it better? That is the same format that got accepted for Bluetooth https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/bluetooth/#bluetooth-interference-with-other-devices

Author: > Not even to start reading this one mobile 🙈 This needs to be structured differently.

Is that really a showstopper? It is not better to now just push this into the ZHA documentation as-is and then improve it?

I think that some documentation about this very important subject of interference avoidance must be better than none.

Author: Tried again to restructure that last segment as best I could.

  - Most manufacturers usually provide straightforward guides for updating the firmware.
  
- Try different physical placement and orientations of the Zigbee Coordinator and its antenna.
  - Optimal placement of the Zigbee adapter is close to the middle of the house as possible.
  - Try placing Zigbee Coordinator at some distance away from walls, ceilings, and floors.
  - Try different orientations of the Zigbee Coordinator adapter or its antenna.

While using an older Zigbee Coordinator radio adapter hardware might work, using obsolete hardware and/or old firmware can prevent reliable operation. It is also generally a good idea to upgrade Zigbee Coordinator firmware before troubleshooting any further if and when run into problems with devices. 

##### Actions to avoid or workaround EMI/EMF/RMI interference

Since all Zigbee Coordinator radio adapters are very sensitive/susceptible to all types of EMI/EMF/RMI you should always try to optimize the placement of the Zigbee Coordinator and avoid known sources of interference.

- Use a long USB extension cable and place Zigbee Coordinator away from interference and obstacles.

>   - Ensure USB extension cable is adequately shielded (thicker cables usually have better shielding).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Ensure the USB extension cable is adequately shielded (thicker cables usually have better shielding).
```

  - Place Zigbee Coordinator away from electrical wires/cables, power supplies, and household appliances.
  - Extension cables also makes it easier to try different orientations of the adapter/antenna.

- Avoid USB 3.0 ports/computers/peripherals as they are known culprits of RFI/EMI/EMF disruption. (See Ref. [1](https://www.usb.org/sites/default/files/327216.pdf) and [2](https://www.unit3compliance.co.uk/2-4ghz-intra-system-or-self-platform-interference-demonstration/)).
  - Make sure to only connect the Zigbee USB adapter to a USB 2.0 port (and not to a USB 3.x port). 

>   - If computer only has USB 3.x ports then buy and connect Zigbee Coordinator via a powered USB 2.0 hub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If a computer only has USB 3.x ports then buy and connect Zigbee Coordinator via a powered USB 2.0 hub.
```

- Shield any unshielded computers/peripherals/devices by adding all-metal enclosures/chassis/casings.
  - Use shielded USB cables for all external peripherals/devices, especially USB 3.x peripherals.

>   - Be aware that metal casings can decrease performance of an internal/built-in Zigbee Coordinator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Be aware that metal casings can decrease the performance of an internal/built-in Zigbee Coordinator.
```

> - Avoid Wi-Fi Routers and Wi-Fi Access Points, alternatively change WiFi channel or Zigbee channel.
>   - Place your Zigbee Coordinator away from any Wi-Fi access points and all other sources of WiFi.
>   - Wi-Fi frequency ranges can overlap with Zigbee, see section above on defining Zigbee channel use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Avoid Wi-Fi Routers and Wi-Fi Access Points, alternatively change the Wi-Fi channel or Zigbee channel.
  - Place your Zigbee Coordinator away from any Wi-Fi access points and all other sources of WiFi.
  - Wi-Fi frequency ranges can overlap with Zigbee, see the section above on defining Zigbee channel use.
```
